{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14400\viewh11400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Consequences of the Pythagorean theorem\
\
The Pythagorean theorem gives us a way to calculate the length of a side of a right triangle if you know the length of two sides.  It states that a^2+b^2=c^2.  c is the length of the hypotenuse, and a and b are the lengths of the sides adjacent to the right angle.  Because lengths are 0 or positive, there can be only one value for a third side if you know two others.  If a and b are known, just take the square root of a^2+b^2.  If a and c are known, just take the square root of c^2-a^2.  If b and c are known, it is the same idea: just take the square root of c^2-b^2.\
\
Triangle\'92s with the same size and shape: congruence of triangles.\
\
Some triangles are not possible for any kind of triangle.  One side cannot be bigger than, or equal to, the sum of the other two sides, In the case of them being smaller than the other two sides\'92 sum, they  will never be able to touch, no matter what angles there are, as they will not be long enough.  In the case of them being equal to the sum, the triangle would be a very strange triangle with no area, and such a triangle is not considered a triangle.\
\
All this remains true for a right triangle, but, with the requirement for a 90 degree (pi/2 radian) triangle, the rules are more strict.  Many triangles that are perfectly valid triangles are not right triangles.  This means that triangles are a superset of right triangles, and right triangles are a subset of triangles.\
\
Given three side lengths, you can have only one triangle.  To understand this, you can think of the three sides unconnected, and then swinging until they touch.  If either swings too far, they will be too close to each other and will not meet at their ends.  (In a triangle, where the sides\'92 ends meet are called vertices; the singular is called a vertex).  Similarly, if they do not swing far enough, they will not reach each other.  This is known as the side-side-side (SSS) theorem\
\
However, if given three angles alone, there are an infinite number of triangles if you can find one valid triangle.  This is because the side lengths can all be multiplied by a constant without needing to change any of the angles.  These triangles are known as similar triangles.\
\
If given a side, an angle, and a side, if the sides are adjacent to the angle, they are locked into place so that only one third side connect them.  This is sufficient for determining a triangle, and is known as the side-angle-side (SAS) theorem.\
\
Given three angles and a side, you know \'93the shape\'94 of the triangle, and because you know one side, you have sufficient information to determine the lengths of the other sides as you know that they are line segments in two intersecting lines.  This is known as the angle-angle-angle-side (AAAS) theorem.\
\
Given just one angle, the angle must be in the middle of the two sides, as otherwise one of the sides could swing in relation to the other.\
\
Given two angles and a side between them, you can know the other two sides, as they once again require the line segments made by two intersecting lines.  This is known as the angle-side-angle (ASA) theorem.  In fact, given any two angles and a side, the triangle can be determined.  If one of the angles is not adjacent to the side, even if it were allowed to \'93slide\'94 along a side, their is only one point (spot) where a line through it at that angle can intersect the known side. So any two angles and a side are sufficient to determine a triangle.  So AAS, ASA, and SAA (which is AAS written in a different order) are all valid for determining triangles.\
\
Two sides alone are not sufficient for determining a triangle as, they may \'93swing\'94, thus allowing for an infinite number of possible triangles.\
\
Two sides and an angle that is not between them are sometimes valid for determining a triangle, but only if the angle is opposite to the longer side.  If you think about it, the second side with that angle at its endpoint then cannot \'93slide\'94, and so must \'93swing\'94 until a line through its edge making that angle with it intersects the other edge of the first side.  However, if the angle is adjacent to the longer side, two triangles are possible: it can swing closed until the relatively smaller triangle is made, or it can swing open until the relatively larger triangle is made.  So ASS and SSA are not sufficient in themselves to determine a triangle in all cases, but can, in all cases, determine that 2 or fewer triangles can be made.\
\
If you put a triangle in a xy plane or in xyz space, in can have properties such as a location.  Thus, two triangles are called congruent instead of equal when the theorems above can be applied to them.  }